# H323 Protocol Simplified

### Author: John Melody

---

This protocol is a Recommendation from the ITU Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) that defines the protocols to provide audio-visual communication sessions on any packet network. The H.323 standard addresses call signaling and control, multimedia transport and control, and bandwidth control for point-to-point and multi-point conferences. It is widely implemented by voice and videoconferencing equipment manufacturers, is used within various Internet real-time applications such as GnuGK and NetMeeting and is widely deployed worldwide by service providers and enterprises for both voice and video services over IP networks. It is a part of the ITU-T H.32x series of protocols, which also address multimedia communications over ISDN, the PSTN or SS7, and 3G mobile networks. H.323 call signaling is based on the ITU-T Recommendation Q.931 protocol and is suited for transmitting calls across networks using a mixture of IP, PSTN, ISDN, and QSIG over ISDN. A call model, similar to the ISDN call model, eases the introduction of IP telephony into existing networks of ISDN-based PBX systems, including transitions to IP-based PBXs.

> Within the context of H.323, an IP-based PBX might be a gatekeeper or other call control element which provides service to telephones or videophones. Such a device may provide or facilitate both basic services and supplementary services, such as call transfer, park, pick-up, and hold.

Flexible addressing mechanisms, including URIs, e-mail addresses, and E.164 numbers.
H.323 supports these aliases:

1. E.164 dialed digits
2. Generic H.323 ID
3. URL
4. Transport address
5. Email address
6. Party number
7. Mobile UIM
8. ISUP number


Call Setup:

```
A call can be established in as few as 1.5 round trips using UDP:

            +-----------------------+
            |       Setup           |
            +----------------------->  
    Client  |        Connect        |   Server
            <-----------------------+     
            |        ACK            |
            +----------------------->
     
```



> H.323 also supports overlap sending with no additional overhead, except conveyance of the newly received digits in a single message.


> H.323 supports any codec, standardized or proprietary. No registration authority is required to use any codec in H.323.

> H.323 does not require a gatekeeper. A call can be made directly between two endpoints. However, most devices do utilize a gatekeeper for the purpose of registration and address resolution.

> Multi Cast Signalling through third-party pause and re-routing which is defined within H.323. More sophisticated control is defined by the related H.450.x series of standards.

> For authentication [H.235](https://www.itu.int/rec/dologin_pub.asp?lang=e&id=T-REC-H.235-199802-S!!PDF-E&type=items)

> DTMF  Carriage: H.245 User Input Indication, [RFC 4733](https://www.packetizer.com/rfc/rfc4733/?format=txt), or via the audio stream. The alphanumeric choice of the H.245 UserInputIndication message is the baseline carriage common to all H.323 endpoints, so interoperability is assured.

</br>

Reference : [Differences](https://bit.ly/34Ei9fH) ||  [SIP-H.323](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-agrawal-sip-h323-interworking-reqs-02)</br>
Source : [Download](https://bit.ly/3bbbFq4) </br>